#summary Drawing materials
= Pens and paper =

Try anything.

I use a smooth a paper as I can find in order to reduce friction on the pen tip, and make for a continuous line of ink.  Bristol board is a kind of heavyweight drawing card I use, beloved of comic book artists because it takes a beating and stays intact, it's very good.  Don't seem to be able to get it in A1 sizes, so I've been using a heavyweight (220gsm) cartridge paper for A1.  Ink bleeds more a bit more with it, but not unattractively.

== Fine ==
The pens I use the most are fibre-tip fine liner pens, ZIG Millenniums, that come in a few different colours.  These come as narrow as 0.05mm tip, which gives a line about 0.2mm wide, so good for the most detailed drawings.

PIGMA Micron pens are very similar, and seem to be more popular / available in the US.  Pilot DR drawing pens used to be the daddy, but I can't get them locally any more.  I've also used UniPIN pens with success, they have a nice warm black tone that is rather pleasant.

I have hopes for the COPIC Multiliner SP since it's got a 0.03mm tip, and replaceable bits, so there's a bit more scope there for a kind of bulk ink loading for ginormous drawings. Of course it is five times the price of a ZIG Millennium, so progress will be slow on that one.

== Coarse ==
Graphic markers, or sharpies are great because they come in so many colours but they dry out fast.  I think they dry out because the cap is off, rather than they run out of ink, to be honest.  They also tend to bleed into the paper.  This is ok, and a nice effect, but hard to control - you can't turn it off for instance, if you don't like it.

They also are often pretty fat so some (Kuretake ones) don't fit in the gondola.  I've used Letraset Promarker with success, and I think their TRIO range is the same dimensions.

I have had very good results with ZIG Writer pens though, they are water based so don't dry out, and have a good range of colours, and are narrow, and have a thick end (1.5mm ish) and a thin end (0.6 ish).  They kick ass actually.  I wish I had more requests for coarse drawings.

== The joy of Frankenpens ==
Don't forget pens aren't sealed capsules of magic, and you can sometimes cut the tip off one, and graft it into another (particularly with hard fibre tips) and get some results out of it.  I did this with a promarker that was the right colour, but only had a fat tip, and it worked fine.  All the ones I use are basically the same, there's a big lump of inky felt inside, and some kind of wick to get it to the tip.  That's it.  Fun too.

I'd be interested to see results of drawings with liquid inks - rollerballs or something.  I've steered clear of these, because they stay wet for a bit long, rely on being vertical to get the ink to the tip, and also I thought would probably need more pressure on the tip to leave a mark.  But I haven't tried it, so I could be wrong on all counts.  It would certainly help reduce the problem of tip wear that is common to fibre tips (the tip gets worn, and spread out - bigger - over the course of a drawing).

== The big question ==
What happens when the pen runs out half way through?
I get a new one, and start again.